The prototype was constructed first and then below, the 2nd prototype refactoring is introduced.

(1) pre-production model training and testing:

   phases are defined for hyper-parameter tuning, model training and model testing
   using the best found hyper-parameters or the given hyper-parameters.

   the code handles data partition over multi-host and multi-local devices (like gpus), and
   synchronization of the model training over multi-host.

   dataloader transformation operations are defined to take a batch of user_id, movie_id, rating, timestamps
   and produce an output graph of arrays. the transformations use user history, recommended movies for the user,
   and the movie catalog to form "negatives" for each single row in the batch (which is called the positive).
   this builds a graph for contrastive learning for goal of ranking results.

   the adamw algorithm is used in optimization to reduce the softmax loss.

   after each epoch of training, the validataion dataset is used to calculate metrics.

   early stopping of training can occur if validation ndcg@20 stops improving.


   the software engineering challenges were:
   - coding for multi-host ability and verification that the  model checkpoints saves and restores were correct and
     agreed with live model results.
   - getting the datasets correct for contrastive learning.
   - coding for the k8s, and kfp runs using kubeflow trainer v2
   - improving the reading of data from CPU onto GPUs:
     - required use ofthe multi-procesisng library,
       configuration of grain workers, threads, and prefetch,
       proper inclusion of nvidia libraries and NCCL flags to make sure NCCL
       moves data between both GPUs, then using asynchronous prefetching of
       dataloader onto GPUs.

see file opt_gpu_notes.txt for the gradual improvements in reducing runtime.
the file is a work in progress.

---------------------------

the 2nd prototype:

refactoring of GraphRanker to move the embeddings from the constructor, to data included in the batch given to
the call method.  The increase in data for each batch call is not a significant amount considering that the
batch size at largest is 256 and that the embeddings lengths are 16.

this will reduce the model RAM which makes loading of the model faster, and it will reduce redundancy is the overall
workflow of the recommendation system.



